Update 3rd party db to include Hyperdrive (#23171)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: src/content/docs/workers/databases/third-party-integrations/planetscale.mdx

title: PlanetScale
---

import { Render, PackageManagers, Tabs, TabItem } from "~/components";

[PlanetScale](https://planetscale.com/) is a MySQL-compatible platform that makes databases infinitely scalable, easier and safer to manage.

:::note

> You can connect to PlanetScale using [Hyperdrive](/hyperdrive) (recommended), or using the PlanetScale serverless driver, `@planetscale/database`. Both provide connection pooling and reduce the amount of roundtrips required to create a secure connection from Workers to your database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can connect to PlanetScale using [Hyperdrive](/hyperdrive) (recommended), or using the PlanetScale serverless driver, `@planetscale/database`. Both provide connection pooling and reduce the amount of round trips required to create a secure connection from Workers to your database.
```

> Hyperdrive can provide lower latencies because it performs the database connection setup and connection pooling across Cloudflare's network. Hyperdrive supports native database drivers, libraries and ORMs, and is included in all [Workers plans](/hyperdrive/platform/pricing/). Learn more about Hyperdrive in [How Hyperdrive Works](/hyperdrive/configuration/how-hyperdrive-works/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Hyperdrive can provide lower latencies because it performs the database connection setup and connection pooling across Cloudflare's network. Hyperdrive supports native database drivers, libraries, and ORMs, and is included in all [Workers plans](/hyperdrive/platform/pricing/). Learn more about Hyperdrive in [How Hyperdrive Works](/hyperdrive/configuration/how-hyperdrive-works/).
```
